---
layout: post
title:  "Fourth"
date:   2012-07-10
---

> Browsing around a batch of OLD files (in a folder titled "Really OLD
> Files") and found this essay from Mrs. Stecklein's English class at
> [TMP-M][1] my junior or senior year.  It seemed appropriate for this
> time of year...

The celebration began as it had every Fourth of July. Children grew restless
as the long awaited event drew near. Soon the celebration of America's
birthday would fill the night air with the sights and sounds befitting such
a party. A hush fell upon the crowd as the sun slowly slipped below the
western horizon. The sky's peaceful blue transformed to shades of red and
orange. As the sun sank further, deep purple replaced the orange and red.
Finally, with the black of night settling in, the celebration began.

As everyone and everything faded into the darkness of the night the band
assembled inside the concert shell structure and played its first song. The
rousing march conveyed feelings of national pride and joy throughout the
audience. Each individual instrument added an integral element to the whole of
the music. The bass drum along with the low brass section beat out a rhythm
which demanded attention. With a complex and involved part the snare drums
also contributed to the rhythm. No one could help but tap his foot. Trumpets
cut above the rhythm with piercing melody like bright light shining from the
darkness. Finally, on top of all that came the whistle and trill of the
piccolos. The feeling and emotion stirred by the band prepared the audience
for what they were about to behold.

Suddenly, the sound of the crack of gunpowder ripped through the air. Color
and light immediately filled the clear starlit sky. First, brilliant red
appeared and then blinding white. Each color brought an astonished reaction
from the people who craned their necks upward to see what would happen next.
Large explosions rocked the ground as magnificent colors traveled upward to
meet the splendid nighttime. At the top of the projectile's flight, the crowd
heard a second smaller explosion before color arched out to stretch across the
entire sky. After a time, the giant umbrella slowly faded from view, however,
another quickly took its place.

As all good things must, the spectacular celebration drew to a close. One last
grand event reached for the people's attention. The conductor announced the
band's last selection over the public address system. As the band began to
play the national anthem, a large replica of the Stars and Stripes lighted in
the center of the field. Fireworks of every imaginable sort filled the sky as
the huge flag burned brightly on the ground. Finally, with the last strain of
the anthem the explosions ceased and the color faded from the air. The
celebration had ended until next year.

[1]:http://www.tmp-m.org